if you're an experienced Excel user,
you're probably familiar with the B look up function I won't will be doing in this video is
creating our own variation of the V look up function,
which has a pro rata feature.
In this example.
V Look up is being used to calculate the annual bonus paid to sales people.
And if we take the first person Alexander Williams,
you'll see that he's entitled to a bonus payments of 1.25%.
He falls in this bracket between the quarter of a 1,000,000 half a 1,000,000 but he's much
closer to the half a 1,000,000.
So if a pro rata system were in place instead of getting 1.25 because he's fallen short off
the half a 1,000,000 required for 2.5% he'd be getting a pro rata figure.
So because his sales close to the upper limit of the band in which he falls so his bonus
rates will also increase.
So on our pro rata system,
you get a bonus of about 2.4% so that's kind of visual.
Basic.
Let's begin by incessant module.
I will call it M user defined,
and now we need to insert a public function.
I will call it be Look up pro rata.
Let's begin by defining our variables and at the same time I'll describe the technique that
we're going to use to come up with the answer.
So our first step will be to identify the upper and lower limits that apply to each person
,
said Look at the person sales.
And then we want to find out which band they fall into.
So the first person is you can see Onley look up column falls into the band between quarter
of a 1,000,000 half a 1,000,000 then on the Return column that column but contains the
answer.
He falls into the 1.25 to 2.5% bracket.
And,
of course,
for this function,
both the input values and the output values are numeric,
so hence will use the double data type for all of these variables.
Next,
we'll calculate the look up range,
and to do this will simply subtract the lower limits from the upper limit.
And we'll do this both for the look up column,
but first column.
I'll look up table on the return column in this case,
the second column of our look up table.
These two figures will tell us the input and output bands within which we need to calculate
the final pro rata figure.
What we now need to do is to calculate where within these bands the figure actually falls
on.
The first step in doing this is to calculate the difference between the sales figure that
we're looking up on the lower limit.
So in this case,
there'll be quite a big difference because this person sales figure is close to the upper
limit.
So we'll call this one DB l look up,
def.
Then once we have these figures in place,
we can work out our pro grant a factor.
And to do this will take the difference between the look up value on the lower limit.
A man defined that by the look up a range.
So if the person sales figure falls bang in the middle,
we'd end up with no 0.5.
In this example,
this person sales figure is very close to the upper limit,
so we end up with a figure of 0.9374 and finally will need a range variable so that we can
loop through the range specified by the user.
Let's now turn our attention to the other type of variables will make the parameter
variables.
So we compare our V look up with the built in V.
Look up what we've got here.
I can just click on the inside function button to bring up the function with it.
You'll see that we've got a parameter called look up value.
Then we've got the table of Ray and then we've got the column in.
Next time we will need all three of these.
We won't need the final optional parameter,
but what we'll do is we'll use exactly the same terminology that Excel uses.
And then finally,
we need to specify the type of data being returned,
which in this case is going to be a double excels,
built envy.
Look up can,
of course,
return text values.
But for our function,
text doesn't make any sense.
The points of pro branta is too calculated numerical output value,
so our function only needs to think about returning a double.
So our first task is to locate which banned matches to overcome value so the use is going
to specify the table the look up table by doing one of three things.
Bacon drank across just the figures they could drink across the entire table,
including heading.
Or they can do what most people do and dragged across the column headings.
So the strategy we're going to take is to start on the top left of the specified range.
And then before we proceed well,
there's need to calculate whether we're in a cell that contains a number,
and if we're not weaken,
then just move down one cell,
which will take us to the first numerical cell within the range.
So when we set our anti look up,
we need to look inside our table array parameter on that has been defined as arranged.
So since I pressed dots,
the intelligence gives me all of the members which apply to the range.
Object on what we're interested in is the cells within the range.
And to get to the top left,
we say Really,
next one column index one.
So that's our starting point.
Then we can use a one line if statement to say if they sell did not contain a number.
Let's just move down one self so that takes us to the first numerical cell.
And then we want to keep moving down until we come to a cell,
which either contains a value.
It is greater than the look up.
Values in this case will actually stop on half a 1,000,000.
Or if this person had actually sold more than a 1,000,000 we would be taken right off the
edge of the table.
So you also have to say,
Oh,
we come to a blank cell.
So either of those two,
we either come to assault.
It contains a number greater than the look up value,
or we come to a blank cell,
so I'm going to use a do while loop for this on.
We simply want to move down again.
So after this code executes,
we're either going to be on a soul within the table in the first column of the table.
If the users sales figures exceeded,
the maximum value will be on that blank room.
So let's deal with the blank row first,
because that's the simplest.
If they're on the blank road,
they simply get the highest rate.
So I just basically need to use the offset property to move up one cell and write one cell
.
Then that's the value that the function will return such a return of value.
We used the name of our function,
and we set that equal to the value wondering,
turn.
And of course,
we'll meet and else.
And then it ended.
So in the else scenario we're on one of these cells on were then interested in populating
our four variables to calculate the upper and lower limits of both the look up column and
return Colin.
I'm just going to copy this section.
Ondas modify the code first,
tap them in and change all of the let's all of the Dimmesdale.
Let's on.
We just specify what each of them is going to be.
So the upper look up will simply be orangey look upto value,
and then each of the others will simply get offset.
So for this one,
we need to go up one minus 10 and then to get to the return column.
So if the first person this will be our orangey look up.
So to get to the upper return limits,
we simply need to go right one and then for the lower we get off one and write one,
so this one will be 01 on this one will be minus 11 Next we calculate our ranges,
and that's simply the difference between the upper and lower limits.
On the other difference will need is the difference between the look up value on the lower
limit,
and this will tell us what the pro rata will need to be.
So here we could see this person is very close to the upper limit.
So we take his figure and subtract the lower limit from it.
So here we using the look up,
valued,
specified by the user,
and we subtracting BBO lower look up.
So once we've got all these calculations in place,
we're home and dry.
We can calculate the pro rata figure,
and then from that we can calculate the final value returned by this function.
Said you calculate the print Bronson.
We simply need to divide the look up def by the range that it forms part off.
And then finally,
to get in function to return a value.
We used the name of the function like we did here in the positive part of the statement.
What will need to do?
It's festival to multiply D B l return range,
buyout program figure,
and then add that value to the lower limit of our return section.
So for this first person you remember,
he falls very close to the upper limit of his bracket.
So he had a high de bl pro rata of no 0.9 something on.
What we then do is we multiply that pro rata by the difference between these two.
That gives us the programs a factor,
which we then add to his lower limits.
So instead of just get in the lower limit,
which be look up,
gives him he gets that lower limit figure,
plus the program after amount within the band that he falls into.
So let's save and test our code.
And to test our code,
we can simply delete the original look up.
And he says,
I run so he's inside function,
and then your functions,
ones that you define will be under a special category gold user defined There it is.
You look up program.
What mean set the function,
All the parameters that we've defined it is blade in exactly the same way as for built in
functions.
So I look at value will be too table array of there's gonna use the column methods on
drinking across the two column headings pulls the column index.
It's called him,
too.
America is so his bonus rate instead of Bean 1.25 it would have bean with you.
Look up is now closer to the upper limit on his 2.5.
I just double click to copy that down for everyone,
and we could do one final test.
If I put a 1,000,000 in front of his figure.
He now gets the upper limits of 7.5.
So let's just don't do so.
That's an example of where you might use a user defined function where you want to
calculate a value within the body of the worksheet on.
There isn't an Excel built in function that will do exactly what you need